---
title: Python Code Generator
permalink: /editor/python-code-generator
layout: default
---

ResInsight is able to produce a Python library that is capable of interacting with ResInsight. This generator produce Python code based on tagging of classes and members in C++, making it easy to maintain the Python code from one code base.

The Python code is partly hand-coded classes and autogenerated classes from ResInsight. The Python code is located at 
https://github.com/OPM/ResInsight/tree/dev/GrpcInterface/Python

### Description of the rips library
Manually maintained classes are located at the root of the rips library. Some manually maintained framework classes and methods are located in `pdmobject.py` This includes helper functions to convert data between Python and GRPC data structures used to communicate with ResInsight.
https://api.resinsight.org/en/main/api/rips.PdmObjectBase.html#rips.PdmObjectBase

When a class is tagged to be scriptable using `CAF_PDM_InitScriptableObject`, Python code for this class can be generated. This code is generated by ResInsight using a command line parameter. The fields to be exposed in Python is tagged with `CAF_PDM_InitScriptableField...`

### Python code generation
Python executable must be made available to the **ResInsight** build process. Then, GRPC with dependencies must be installed. If these requirements are met, the Python code will automatically be produced during a normal **ResInsight** build.

### Manual generation of Python code
1. Build ResInsight
2. Start ResInsight with command line parameter `--generate myPythonCode.py`
3. ResInsight will start, objects will be inspected, and Python code will be exported to the file `myPythonCode.py`
4. The utility functions in ResInsight is located at https://github.com/OPM/ResInsight/blob/3a9407886749ca7163197136ab80c884b131a06c/Fwk/AppFwk/cafPdmScripting/cafPdmPythonGenerator.h   

### Concepts used to produce Python code
Command file functions
ResInsight has a basic script interpreter based on sequential text commands read from a file. This was implemented before the Python support. Command file object derive from `RicfCommandObject` and can be executed using the class `RicfCommandFileExecutor`

To be able to reuse these functions, a wrapper for these functions is available in Python.

**Class and methods**
Use the macro `CAF_PDM_InitScriptableObject` to mark a class as scriptable. Use the macro `CAF_PDM_InitScriptableField...` to mark a field as scriptable.

**Add Python method to an existing class**
Sometimes it is required to add some more code related to a function using the Python API. This can be adding new objects to a parent object, and more management code related to this operation is required. To use this concept, add a new class deriving from `PdmObjectMethod`, and connect to the class you want to extend using the class keyword. 


More details on the GRPC interface https://ceetronsolutions.github.io/resinsight-system-doc/editor/grpc-interface
